***************************
CHAPTER 1: The Forest Stirs
***************************

*******
SUMMARY
*******

A monster attack has come from the north and west of Ebonach in the early
hours of the morning – wolves. The drawbridges over the moats were somehow let
down and sabotaged overnight, allowing the wolves passage into the city. Abelon,
Kath, and a small group of their most skilled fighters were dispatched to the
north to hold the enemy off at the bridge, which acts as a chokepoint. Jericho
and the main army was sent to the wide bridge at the city's western entrance,
where the enemy was strongest.

Captains Abelon and Kath, along with Abelon's knight Shanti, and
Kath's knight Lester, fight at the bridge and drive back the wolves. They move
towards the forest as the city guard repairs the broken drawbridge behind them.
At this point, Abelon commands that the others retreat across the bridge, but
that he has a matter to attend to in the forest. Kath protests that Abelon will
not survive the forest alone and that they should all retreat together, but
Abelon insists, and strikes out into the trees as the other knights go back
across the bridge. It's not long, however, before a fearful Kath and Shanti
decide to disobey the senior captain and go after him, and Lester follows
behind.

Abelon, unbeknownst to the others, was in possession of a ritual text given to
him by the late Cardinal at the moment of her execution. The Cardinal told him
that the ritual would give him the power he needed to protect Ebonach, the power
of a demon. The ritual's instructions specified an old clearing in the forest,
and Abelon felt that, with the nearby wolves defeated, this was his best and
only chance to perform the ritual safely without exposing his comrades to
danger. He quickly makes his way to the clearing and begins a ritual lost to
folklore known as a blood rite.

Kath, Lester, and Shanti tread cautiously into the forest, several minutes
behind Abelon. They soon encounter a wolf, which Lester volunteers to fend off.
Kath moves west, while Shanti moves east in search of Abelon.

As Abelon completes the ritual, he loses control of his own body, and the player
takes control. Moving east slightly, you meet up with a panicked Kath. You feel
a rumbling earthquake before being approached by wolves.

After fending off the wolves, Kath notices a blood trail from one of their
mouths, leading north. Could it be Lester? There's a choice between
investigating it and continuing east to the knights. Reaching turn limits
causes a game over in which Kath comments that they're too late.

Moving north vs moving east creates two branching scenarios here:

EAST:

Heading east from the clearing, you meet up with Lester, who is heading off some
wolves and some kind of sentient stone monster with rocks of ignea sticking out
of it. Lester is panicked, he says the monster forced him further west away
from Shanti, and it appeared when the earthquake happened. Also it's using magic
to create ignaeic explosions, even though no monster has ever been known to use
magic. You fight off the enemies. You can't move backwards until finding Shanti,
because Lester has already headed off to the east to find her, and Kath says
you need to follow him.

Moving further east, you find Shanti fighting off wolves of her own. She is
cornered and in trouble. Abelon, Kath, and Lester must move quickly to save her,
a battle. Reinforcements arrive during the battle when an earthquake strikes,
and more stone monsters appear, though Lester is able to warn the party to avoid
the imminent explosion.

When the battle is done, the reunited group talks for a bit. Kath realizes the
blood trail he and Abelon found earlier must not belong to a knight, and the
group goes to investigate. They find Elaine, dead. They somberly take her
amulet, by way of identification, resolving to find out her identity and hold
a service on their return to the city.

Heading south, the group reaches the bridge. They are ambushed behind by more
monsters, and Kath orders the guards to quickly lower the bridge. The group
must survive the onslaught until the bridge comes down, at which point they
cross and have a tense conversation.

The chapter ends as the party enters Ebonach and a mysterious voice lashes out
in anger, demanding to be released.

NORTH:

If you move north, you find Elaine, a hunter who was injured and is unable to
move. Kath begins healing her, and the two of you are attacked. You defend
Elaine, and Kath finishes healing her, but she is paralyzed by wolf poison and
can't move. Kath suggests a salve made from Wornfleet leaves, which he sends
you to get while he guards Elaine, or alternatively points out that Lester has
some and if they reach him he could cure her. Wornfleet is found to the
north-west - Kath will stop you if you try to move north east.

Another branching scenario is created here: whether you make the salve yourself,
or go to get Lester.

MAKE THE SALVE:

If you personally save Elaine with Wornfleet, she will fight with you. The group
moves southeast to find Lester. He is in the same situation as before, but is
critically injured due to the time taken to heal Elaine. You must save him and
dispatch the foes in Elaine's first ever monster battle.

The group runs on to find Shanti, as in the EAST scenario above, but they are
much later this time. Just as they reach Shanti, who has already cut through
some monsters, the earthquake strikes, and stone monsters appear next to her.
Lester shouts at her to run, but she is surrounded - the monsters explode,
killing her instantly. Her body flies east and monsters swarm after it. A battle
ensues in which Shanti is a single turn from death, across the map, with no
way to save her. The objective is to rout or escape, but the group clearly can
only escape. The group is forced to flee before the monsters turn on them, with
all four feeling torn and guilty over abandoning Shanti, but knowing she is
dead for certain.

They encounter two stone monsters and must fight them off.

Heading south, the group reaches the bridge. They are ambushed behind by more
monsters, and Kath orders the guards to quickly lower the bridge. The group
must survive the onslaught until the bridge comes down, at which point they
cross and have a tense conversation.

The chapter ends as the party enters Ebonach and a mysterious voice lashes out
in anger, demanding to be released.

GO GET LESTER:

If you leave Elaine paralyzed to go get Lester, she will protest, but Kath says
they can't move her on account of the poison, and that monsters should avoid the
area for the next several minutes. They find Lester engaged in battle as in the
EAST scenario, and order him to escape to the left. This is a win condition for
this battle – Lester must escape in time.

Lester leaves and you dispatch the foes. Kath insists that you can't go back
now, and that you should trust Lester to do his job and save Elaine. Your job
is to reach Shanti as quickly as possible. You head east.

Reaching Shanti, you find that she is cornered and overwhelmed, as before, but
she cuts a path through the enemies using a powerful spell, and runs towards
you. Monsters follow behind her, and the three decide to flee until they meet
up with Lester and Elaine. As they run, an earthquake strikes and stone monsters
emerge to block their path. Elaine is on the other side of them. They must
fight, but with many enemies at their heels, it looks grim. Soon into the battle,
Lester emerges from the north, and all enemies switch to targeting him.
Reinforcements appear near him. Within two turns, he will die. The party must
escape before then, leaving him for dead. After talking to Elaine, Kath realizes
Lester distracted the entire mob of enemies, at the cost of his life.
The four somberly continue south.

Heading south, the group reaches the bridge. They are ambushed behind by more
monsters, and Kath orders the guards to quickly lower the bridge. The group
must survive the onslaught until the bridge comes down, at which point they
cross and have a tense conversation.

The chapter ends as the party enters Ebonach and a mysterious voice lashes out
in anger, demanding to be released.

******
SCRIPT
******

// black screen

???: "...and no........y this ri......power unto......mon thee.............
      ...all of us!"

// Slow fade in to Abelon standing in the middle of a summoning circle drawn in
// blood, in a clearing in a forest. An open book lies on the ground nearby.

// A wolf stands to the east of Abelon. A battle begins without any fanfare.
// The battle preparation menu is skipped, and assists are disabled for this
// battle.

(Battle: Basic tutorial)
Tutorial: "Use the arrow keys to navigate around the battle grid and between
           menu options. Press F to confirm a selection on the grid or
           in a menu. Press D to cancel a selection."

Tutorial: "Selecting an enemy allows you to view information about the enemy."

Tutorial: "Selecting an ally allows you to move them, choose an attack, aim the
           attack, use the remainder of their movement, and then confirm the
           entire action."

Tutorial: "Until the action is confirmed, you can back out of any selection by
           pressing D. Once you confirm, the chosen ally will perform their
           action all at once."

Tutorial: "Move yourself towards the enemy and aim an attack at it to damage it.
           Read the descriptions of your attacks and spells and pick the best
           option for the circumstances."

// Enemy phase 1 ends. The wolf needs two hits to kill Abelon, so you can't die
// yet, or have killed the wolf yet.

(Battle: Phases tutorial)
Tutorial: "Each ally may act only once during the ally phase. Once all allies
           have acted, the ally phase will end and all enemies on the
           battlefield will move and attack you. Then the ally phase begins
           again."

Tutorial: "An ally or enemy dies when their health, visible underneath them,
           reaches zero. Keep your allies alive and defeat all enemies to win
           the battle."

DEFEAT

// After the defeat of the wolf, the player gains control and can move around.

(Navigating the World tutorial)
Tutorial: "Move around the world using the arrow keys. Press F to interact
           with nearby people or objects."

Tutorial: "Press E to open your inventory, where you can see and use the items
           you carry in your pack, inspect your traveling companions, change
           your settings, and read any of these tutorials."

- Book - "An open book lies on the ground, full of strange drawings and hastily
          scrawled paragraphs. The writing is faded and barely legible, and the
          pages practically crumble to dust at the slightest touch."

// Moving to the east through the clearing entrance, out of sight of the
// summoning circle, triggers the following cinematic

???: "Abelon! There you are! And you're still alive, thank Eruta."

// Kath enters from the east and begins speaking to Abelon

???: "Before you lay into me, yes, I heard your instructions perfectly clearly.
      The rest of us would cross the drawbridge and you would go back into the
      woods because you had some "matter to attend to"."

???: "But I'll remind you that you don't actually outrank me and I'm well
      within my rights to save you from your own terrible mistakes. By Ignus,
      what's gotten into you? How many times during training did you tell me it
      was a death sentence to enter the north forest alone?"

A: You were to not interfere (Abelon +1 impression)

    ???: "Brush me off when your life isn't on the line, Abelon. I don't much
          care what your reasons are, the monsters are too dangerous for any one
          person, your considerable skill aside."

A: Who are you? (Kath +2 awareness)

    ???: "...What? Listen, brush me off when your life isn't on the line,
          Abelon. The monsters are too dangerous for any one person, your
          considerable skill aside."

// Kath pauses

???: "And look, you're wounded! Damn your pride, you've already proven me right.
      Let me see that."

// A red glow briefly surrounds Abelon. His wound is healed.

???: "I'll have none of your usual protests about bandages and such, that sword
      arm of yours is well worth my ignea... Speaking of which, I have a few
      rocks for you, if you've room to carry them."

A: I don't need them

    ???: "Then your pack is still full. That's good news."

A: Thanks, I'll take them

    ???: "Right, here you go. Ach, dropped one. Damn things are so small these
          days..."

    // Abelon's ignea is restored

A: Rocks? (Kath +1 awareness)

    ???: "Yes, rocks, and I'm starting to think one hit you on the head - rocks
          of Ignea, Abelon, what else would I be talking about? Here, take
          them."

    // Abelon's ignea is restored

???: "Gunnar, the bridge guard, had some on hand, so the three of us shared them.
      Though he had nothing to say about how the drawbridge had come down in
      the first place... Apparently the knight whose shift followed his never
      arrived, and Gunnar left his post to go looking for the man."

???: "Anyway, we ran into a lone wolf at the crossroads north of the bridge.
      Lester engaged it and Shanti and I split up to keep looking for you. I
      ran west from there, and here we are."

A: I'm grateful for the assistance (Kath +1 awareness, Kath +1 impression)

    ???: "Amazing. You're grateful, after you explicitly told us not to follow
          you. Do remind me to tell Lester I caught Executioner Abelon playing
          hard-to-get like some young lover at the Academy. He'll be in
          stitches."

    ???: "Anyway, have you finished out here? The sooner we reunite with the
          other two, the less danger we'll all be in."

A: I didn't ask for your assistance (Kath -1 impression)

    ???: "Unbelievable... you really think you're invincible, don't you? We're
          all out in the forest now, whether you like it or not, so are you
          finished here? The sooner we reunite with the other two, the less
          danger we'll all be in."

// Dialogue continues

A: I need more time (Kath -1 impression, Abelon -1 impression)

    ???: "We've minutes at most, Abelon, before monsters are drawn here by our
          presence. I can't force you to leave now, but whatever you're doing
          here, it had better be worth it. Find me when you're ready."

    // Dialogue ends. Kath moves to block the way east, so that you must talk
    // to him to proceed, but you can continue to explore the clearing.

A: We must find them immediately

    ???: "Then we're finally in agreement, thank Eruta."

// Talk to Kath again after ending the conversation, or continue from the
// answer above

???: "Let's hurry. Whatever spell or ritual it was that you performed here, you
      can save your explanation for His Majesty."

// A violent earthquake suddenly shakes the ground for a few seconds.

???: "By Ignus! That must have been the worst one since... I don't even
      remember!"

A: What just happened? (Kath +1 awareness)

    ???: "What, don't tell me, even now, you aren't accustomed to the tremors?
          You've spent more time in Mistram than I have, and from what I hear
          it's every other day by the mountains!"

A: Strongest one in my lifetime

    ???: "Really? Ach, all of this is giving me a terrible feeling in the pit
          of my stomach..."

A: I've felt worse

    ???: "Truly? But they weren't so common back when you were my age, surely."

???: "Any more powerful than that and the taller buildings in the city will be
      in danger, don't you think? Although... I can't speak for you, but I
      wouldn't miss that ugly statue of old Sinclair, if it did come tumbling
      down. Or maybe the Academy building will collapse, ha!"

// Kath pauses

???: "It seems like there won't be any aftershocks. Let's go."

// Kath takes a few steps east, and suddenly stops

???: "*sigh*... I suppose we both knew this wasn't going to be easy."

// The camera pans to reveal three wolves as Abelon walks to Kath's side

???: "One of them has blood dribbling from his mouth, you see there? He's
      gotten to something before us. Hold on, who else but us... that couldn't
      have been the one we left Lester to fight, could it? Don't tell me he..."

A: You think he's dead?

    ???: "Not dead, he couldn't be. Either of those two is more than capable of
          dealing with a mangy, rabid mutt. But that's exactly what makes me
          worry. Something must have happened..."

A: He's fine. Have a little faith (Kath +1 impression)

    ???: "Hah! You, cheering me up? Now I've seen it all."

    ???: "But you're right, of course. After all, what kind of captain would
          I be if one of my finest couldn't stand up to some pathetic,
          frothing dog? There must be another explanation."

???: "Though there won't be time to dwell on it. Draw your sword already,
      Abelon, they look like they're about to charge!"

-- Begin battle

// Ally phase 1

???: "Right, let's do the usual song and dance, then. The young upstart will
      take his orders from the grumpy old man."

(Battle: Assists tutorial)
Tutorial: "After using an attack or spell and finishing their movement, an ally
           may additionally use an 'Assist' skill, which is aimed at some set of
           grid tiles."

Tutorial: "For the remainder of the turn (ally and enemy phase), any ally
           standing on an assisted grid tile benefits from the effects of
           the assist skill."

Tutorial: "Position allies to attack from tiles with offensive assists, and
           end their actions on tiles with defensive assists. With three or more
           allies, one unit can even benefit from multiple assists at the same
           time."

// Select Kath

Kath: "Captain Kath of Ebonach, at your command!"

// Enemy phase 1

Kath: "Here they come!"

// Ally phase 2

Kath: "Let's only use as much ignea as we need to. I shouldn't have to remind
       you we've a limited supply with us here in the forest, and there's no
       telling how many monsters stand between us and the drawbridge."

(Battle: Ignea tutorial)
Tutorial: "Many powerful skills consume some amount of Ignea, shown in the
           'Cost' section of their description. Ignea is a precious stone, and
           each unit in battle has a limited supply, shown in their Attributes."

Tutorial: "Be careful with these skills – it may be a long time and multiple
           battles before you can acquire more Ignea."

// Ally phase 3

(Battle: Attributes tutorial)
Tutorial: "The capabilities of a unit are summarized by their 'Attributes'."

Tutorial: "Endurance determines a unit's maximum health, and Focus determines
           their maximum Ignea usage - how efficiently they can use the supply
           of stones they have."

Tutorial: "Force determines the effectiveness of many attacks and spells, and
           Affinity determines the effectiveness of many assists."

Tutorial: "Every two points of Reaction mitigates one point of Weapon Damage.
           Spell Damage, however, always bypasses Reaction."

Tutorial: "Every five points of Agility confers one grid tile of movement in
           battle."

// First wolf killed

Kath: "That wolf won't be standing up again, at the very least. Forward!
       Aflame and alert, as they say."

// When Abelon uses Conflagration or Crucible for the first time

Kath: "By Ignus, what the hell did you just do, Abelon? I've never seen
       such unbelievable magic!"

A: You think I came out here for nothing? (Kath +1 impression, Abelon +1 impression)

    Kath: "Ha... ha ha ha! I still can't fathom why you didn't share your
           plans with the rest of us, but I suppose the one thing I
           should've known better than to do was doubt Captain Abelon!"

A: A secret spell of mine (Kath -1 impression)

    Kath: "Oh really? I seem to recall a great many dire situations which
           this 'secret spell' of yours would have resolved in short order.
           But you've never been one for sharing, have you..."

*If not in final fight*

    Kath: "Do save your Ignea for the reunion with our knights, though. We
           might need that spell again on our way to the drawbridge, and
           even I can tell that unholy fire was no cheap cantrip."

// Kath dies

Kath: "Urgh. Damn, hurts........ But I refuse... to........"

DEFEAT

// Abelon dies

Kath: "Abelon, no! NO!"

DEFEAT

// Victory

Kath: "*huff* *huff* Ach, they aren't so tough when it's just a couple of the
       bastards."

A: Nice bladework (Kath +1 impression, +1 awareness)

    Kath: "Why, a compliment? From you? I must have really outdone myself this
           time, or else you took a blow to the head."

A: They didn't stand a chance

    Kath: "No indeed, they didn't. I don't envy anyone or anything at the wrong
           end of your sword."

-- End battle

*If Abelon is wounded*

    Kath: "Let me see your wounds."

    // Kath approaches Abelon. A red glow surrounds Abelon and Kath as they are
    // healed.

*If Abelon is healthy*

    Kath: "And not a scratch on you! Your skills never fail to impress, truly."

Kath: "Let's see... This blood is fresh, and the trail's visible, at least.
       Tracking it will be slow going, but it should take us straight to
       whatever the beast took a bite out of."

Kath: "More than likely it's some poor animal, a deer maybe. The wolf Lester
       distracted was further east of here. And the blood couldn't be Shanti's,
       she had gone the other way at the crossroads."

Kath: "But could Lester have finished off that wolf and then followed after me?
       By Ignus, if it is a person's blood, we'd be leaving them for dead... but
       if it comes to nothing, we'd waste too much time! More monsters could
       surround us even further from the bridge. Damn... damn! You make the
       call, Abelon."

// The player gains control of Abelon. The player may choose to go north
// following the blood, or continue east towards the crossroads.

(Experience and Learning tutorial)
Tutorial: "In battle, allies gain experience from dealing damage, receiving
           damage, healing and buffing their allies, and debuffing or impairing
           enemies. All allies also gain experience for finishing battles
           quickly, when there is a turn limit."

Tutorial: "After gaining enough experience, an ally will level up, improving
           each of their attributes by one. You also choose one attribute to be
           improved by an extra point."

Tutorial: "Each level up additionally grants the ally one skill point, which
           can be spent in the inventory to learn a new skill to use in battle."

Tutorial: "Every ally practices three 'Disciplines'. Each of their skills falls
           into a discipline. An ally's strength in a particular discipline
           is measured by the number of skills they've learned in that
           discipline."

Tutorial: "In addition to using up a skill point, each skill has discipline
           requirements that the ally must meet in order to learn it."

// If you talk to Kath

Kath: "The decision's yours. Your intuition has saved us enough times before."

// If you proceed north immediately until Elaine is barely in sight. She is by
// the trees.

Kath: "There, do you see that? At the edge of the trees. It looks like a
       girl!"

A: One of our knights (Kath +1 awareness)

    Kath: "Actually... no, I don't think so - see that orange? It looks like
           hair, that couldn't be Shanti. But what would anyone else be
           doing..."

A: Not one of ours

    Kath: "You're right, none of ours has orange hair like she does. But what
           would anyone else be doing..."

Kath: "...By Ignus. She crossed the drawbridge, Abelon. She may have been
       involved in the sabotage."

// Dialogue continues

A: Too much blood. She's dead (Abelon +1 impression, Elaine -1 impression)

    Kath: "Maybe so, but if there's even a faint heartbeat, my spells could
           stitch her together."

        A: Using how much Ignea?

            Kath: "...too much, I suppose you're thinking. But I can't just
                   leave her for dead. You got us into this mess, so I
                   ought to have a turn at being reckless."

            LABEL -A-

            // Pause

            Kath: "...You've told me enough times that the Kingdom's survival
                   requires sacrifices. But I swear I won't be the one to make
                   them."

            A: Who will? (Kath +1 awareness)

                Kath: "You. Just as you always have. Unless you've had a change
                       of heart?"

            A: I will (Abelon +2 impression)

                Kath: "Yes. But not this time."

            // Dialogue continues

            A: And if we die for helping her?

                Kath: "Then Ebonach's hopes die with us. And I know you won't
                       let that happen. So let's get on with it."

            A: I won't stop you (Kath +1 impression)

                Kath: "Hah! You know me better than you let on, Abelon. I'll
                       get closer. Watch my back."

        A: The blood will draw monsters

            Kath: "And if it does, we'll fight them off, as is our speciality."

            GOTO -A-

        A: You'd better work fast (Kath +1 impression, Kath +1 awareness)

            Kath: "As if I wouldn't! You know, back when I manned the Southwall,
                   injured knights would come to me before even seeing a healer.
                   Me, a knight-in-training! Just watch."

        // Kath approaches Elaine. Abelon steps forward a little but hangs back.

A: We need to get closer (Kath +1 impression, Kath +2 awareness, Elaine +1 impression)

    Kath: "I was expecting you to protest. But yes, it's worth the risk,
           even if the blood may draw monsters. Even if she's already dead...
           Watch my back."

    // Kath approaches Elaine. Abelon follows closely behind.

// When Kath reaches Elaine

Kath: "Goodness, she's torn apart. This is a wolf's work for certain. And they
       usually strike to kill. Ach, and she scarcely looks older than Lucille.
       But..."

// Pause

Kath: "........."

// Pause

???: "..."

Kath: "She's alive! Barely. I think I can get her back on her feet, but it's
       going to take time. And most of my Ignea. I'll just... dump out my pack
       here, I suppose."

// Kath loses some Ignea

    A: I'll keep watch. Hurry

        Kath: "Naturally."

    A: You won't have enough left to reach the bridge (Kath -1 impression)

        Kath: "Oh, stow your complaints! You think I'm not well appraised
               of the risk I'm taking? I don't wish for near-dead children to
               appear in my path, Abelon, but nor will I leave them to their
               fate. I have no choice!"

    A: *if Abelon followed Kath* Take some of mine (Kath +1 impression)

        Kath: "Truth be told, I was going to ask. Better both of us be low than
               one of us be dry. Thanks."

        // Abelon loses some Ignea, Kath gains some

    A: *if Abelon followed Kath* Whatever it takes to save her (Kath +1 impression, Kath +2 awareness)

        (Kath awareness < 6)
        Kath: "Whatever it takes? You only extend that concern to the city, the
               Kingdom, and the King himself, last I checked."

        (Kath awareness >= 6)
        Kath: "Whatever it takes? You only extend that concern to the city, the
               Kingdom, and the King himself, last I checked. Something's
               different about you Abelon, I swear it..."

Kath: "...Right. 'For deep gashes, as made by claws or swords, slowly guide a
       fist of thumb-sized stones over the length of the wound, while channeling
       power gently into the wrist and reading the listed incantation...

// Kath starts healing Elaine

Kath: "...Keep the ignea rocks at a steady, low level of activation, and replace
       with new stones when half depleted. Repeat motion until wound closes'...
       Hm, I wonder if I could recite all of the healing scripts from memory."

A: Impressive recollection. (Kath +1 impression)

    Kath: "On the topic of my memory, old man, I haven't forgotten my first
           caravan, when you told the other knights, 'Kath ought to make an easy
           meal for the monsters - he won't notice his head's being chewed off
           until he realizes he can't see his manuscript'."

    A: And it was true, at the time

        Kath: "Perhaps, perhaps not. But the knoweldge has served me well since."

    A: I said such a thing? (Kath +1 awareness)

        Kath: "You did, and everyone laughed their heads off about it. I didn't
               mind that it was at my expense, of course. I suspect I only
               remember it because it was the first time I heard you make a joke
               about anything."

A: You learned something at the Academy after all.

    Kath: "Not so! Sitting at a desk never taught me a thing. Manning the
           Southwall and running caravans was when it all started to stick."

A: Are you just showing off? (Kath -1 impression)

    Kath: "No, I'm trying to remind myself of the specifics of one of five
           hundred ignaeic spellcasting methods pulled from twenty different
           manuscripts. Unless you'd rather I make a mistake and set her on
           fire?"

A: ... (Abelon +1 impression)

Kath: "...Anyway, deep breaths. Let's see..."

Kath: "......"

Kath: "......"

Kath: "............"

Kath: "...That's the big one across her stomach mended... Let's see her head...
       skull seems to be intact, but she slammed into something. Probably
       knocked her out."

A: The tree?

    Kath: "Most likely."

A: You're efficient. (Kath +1 impression, Kath +1 awareness)

    Kath: "Are you surprised? You've watched me do this before."

A: This is... unpleasant to watch. (Abelon -1 impression)

    Kath: "Trust me, I agree. You're welcome to avert your eyes."

Kath: "......"

Kath: "......"

Kath: "............"

// The camera pans around, revealing nothing in particular.

A: Something's not right...

    Kath: "That intuition of yours? Damn... Any idea how long we have before
           they're upon us?"

A: We're not alone. Can you sense it? (Abelon +1 impession)

    Kath: "I can't. How much time do I have?"

    A: Not long. A few minutes.

        Kath: "Then it might come to a fight. The girl has a bow and quiver, maybe
            she can help somehow if I wake her up."

    A: Focus on the girl - I'll defend you both. (Kath +1 impression)

        Kath: "I appreciate the gesture, but like hell you will. The rest of her
            wounds aren't immediately fatal. We'll defend her together, if it
            comes to that."

???: "......."

Kath: "Aha!"

???: "Who...?"

Kath: "We're with the Knights of Ebonach. My name is-"

???: "M-Monster! There's a monster, where did it- Ah!"

Kath: "Careful! Dont whip your head around like that, you have a deep
       laceration on your neck. I'm still healing you."

???: "But..."

A: We killed the wolf. (Kath +1 impression)

A: You're safe. (Elaine +1 impression)

    Kath: "As safe as one can be in the North Forest."

A: ... (Abelon +1 impression)

    Kath: "You were attacked by a wolf, yes. Don't worry, we killed it."

???: "I was... there was... it was chasing me, and I was running... what
      happened?"

A: You don't know?

    LABEL -B-

    ???: "I remember looking back at the monster, and... a-and it was
            getting closer to me... But... then what?"

    Kath: "Perhaps while you were looking behind you, you ran into a tree,
            or tripped, and the blow knocked you unconscious. That's the
            story I'm seeing in the wounds on your head and face."

    ???: "I don't understand. There's far more blood than that."

    Kath: "You were being chased at the time, and we didn't find you fast
            enough, I'm afraid..."

    A: The wolf ripped you apart (All -1 impression)

        Kath: "I wouldn't have put it so viscerally, but yes. Essentially."

    A: ...

        ???: "Oh..."

    ???: "............"

A: We found you covered in blood.

    ???: "Covered in... Oh. Oh goddess. Is this... m-my blood?"

    Kath: "Yes."

    ???: "There's so much. It's l-like when we used to visit the butcher...
          But... I'm not dead?"

    A: Yes. You were very lucky.

        GOTO -B-

    A: You would be, if not for us.

        GOTO -B-

    A: You don't remember. A mercy.

        GOTO -B-

        Kath: "As he said, it's probably a mercy that you don't remember."

???: "Then... I'm alive because you arrived to heal me."

Kath: "And because your fanged assailant didn't finish his work. He left you
       alive. My best guess is the earthquake spooked him and sent him running.
       Straight into us two knights, as it happened."

???: "Knights of Ebonach... You saved me, both of you."

Kath: "Well, that's an ongoing effort. I'm going to move your right leg now."

???: "O-ow!"

Kath: "While we three have time to chat, there are questions we urgently need
       answered."

A: Who are you? Why are you here?

A: ... (Kath +1 awareness)

    Kath: "...Abelon? ...Never mind. Miss, we need to know who you are, and why
           you're in the North Forest."

Elaine: "Um... My name is Elaine. Elaine of Ebonach."

A: And? What are you doing here?

    Elaine: "I... I, um..."

    Kath: "Listen to me. We aren't the only Knights of Ebonach in the forest
           right now. We're split apart, and in great danger. Do you know why?"

A: It's good to meet you. (Abelon -1 impression, Kath +1 awareness)

    Elaine: "And you. Thank you. For saving-"

    Kath: "Hold on. You didn't finish. What on Eruta are you doing out here? I'm
           sure you're aware of why I'm asking this. Aren't you?"

Elaine: "..."

Kath: "Only a few hours ago, the whole of Ebonach awoke to disaster. Both the
       northern and western drawbridges were lowered in the night, the ropes
       cut, the guards missing. Before sunrise, monsters had begun crossing into
       the city."

Kath: "The knights mobilized to secure the streets, and then we ventured out to
       defend the bridges while our craftsmen repaired them. We won our battles
       here in the forest, but we've no word on how Jericho's company fares on
       the Sonder. For all we know, they've been overrun already."

Kath: "And here you are outside of our walls. Even though civilians are never
       let through to the forest while the bridge is under guard, including
       during the repair. Do you understand me, Elaine?"

A: You sabotaged the bridges, or you helped those who did (Elaine -2 impression)

    Elaine: "No! I didn't... I..."

A: You crossed the broken, unguarded bridge and didn't warn anyone (Kath +2 impression)

    Elaine: "I... I only..."

A: Kath, there's another explanation

    Kath: "...Is there?"

// The camera pans around to reveal two approaching wolves

A: Now you've done it... (Kath -1 impression)

A: Kath. On our flanks.

Kath: "By Ignus... We'll have to delay this conversation a little longer.
       Elaine, I'm not finished stitching you together yet, so you'll need to
       hold still while I and Abelon here scare off some wolves."

A: Scare off? (Kath +1 impression)

    Kath: "Yes, that's what we do, isn't it? Scare off monsters. You're
           fantastically scary, has anyone ever told you that, Abelon?"

    A: Yes, you

        Kath: "Ach, right. Well don't take it personally, it's one of your
               charms."

    A: ... (Abelon +1 impression)

        Kath: "...Right, not the time for chatter."

A: Won't take long

    Kath: "...One way or the other, yes."

Elaine: "D-did you say Abelon?"

Kath: "Say, Elaine, you wouldn't happen to know any spells you could conjure up
       using that pile of rocks I set down next to you, would you?"

A: Are we trusting her? (Abelon +1 impression)

    Kath: "Do we have a choice?"

A: You really think she knows magic?

Elaine: "W-what? Rocks?"

Kath: "Ach, I thought not. Hm. In that case, just..."

// Kath turns and steps towards the wolves

Kath: "Watch and learn."

A: Playing the hero, are we?

    Kath: "One of us has to, and by Ignus, Abelon, it isn't going to be
           you. Or Opal, for that matter. Forward!"

A: Let's take the left first

    Kath: "Agreed."

// Fight!
// Elaine begins the battle with 1 hp and two negative statuses: one is a 
// stat reduction to her agility preventing her from moving (lasting infinity
// turns), and the other is wolf venom, which can be cleansed with Purge.

// Ally phase 1

Kath: "They're here for Elaine, they can sense that she's weak. If we can just
       keep them at bay long enough, they'll change their minds and leave us
       alone. Hopefully."

// Ally phase 2

Elaine: "A hunter is always... *huff* *huff* A hunter is always learning
         from..."

A: Are you alright? (Kath +1 awareness)

A: ...

    Kath: Everything all right over there?

Elaine: "Ignore me! Trying to... distract myself from the pain."

Elaine: "If I could just use my bow! Curse these stupid arms, they won't move!"

Kath: "Elaine. I was serious earlier - watch Abelon and I. There's a rhythm to
       fighting monsters. We might need that bow of yours once you're healed,
       should we have another run-in, and learning something here could save
       your life on our way to the drawbridge."

*If you didn't say "Kath, there's another explanation"*

A: Letting her hold a bow would be foolish (Abelon +1 impression)

    Kath: "Hm. Personally, I'd feel more foolish if we confiscated it only to
           be killed by monsters. We'll agree to disagree."

A: ...

Elaine: "Right... right. A hunter is always learning from everything around
         them. If I live through this, grandad, I'll tell you how right you
         were about that!"

// Ally phase 3

Elaine: "Uhh... There's, there's one coming this way towards me, from the trees!
         Help! Help me!"

Kath: "From behind us too? We'll have to kill it as soon as it breaks into the
       clearing. Stay close to Elaine, Abelon!"

// Abelon uses Purge on Elaine

Elaine: "Huh? I feel..."

Kath: "Abelon, what was that? What are you doing? I've never seen that spell
       before."

// Kath dies

Kath: "Urgh. Damn, hurts........ But I refuse... to........"

DEFEAT

// Abelon dies

Kath: "Abelon, no! NO!"

DEFEAT

// Elaine dies

Elaine: "Aaaah!!"

Kath: "Elaine! Ach, dammit!"

DEFEAT

// After the turn limit, the wolves flee. Victory!

Kath: "That's it, run, hah! Back off! And tell your monstrous brethren, *huff*,
       they're better off not picking a fight with the greatest knights in all
       the kingdom!"

A: The greatest knights?

    Kath: "What, you disagree?"

    A: I suppose not (Kath +1 impression)

        Kath: "Precisely."

    A: You aren't yet worthy of that title

        Kath: "Bah! Says the old geezer to the youngest captain in the
               kingdom's history. And it won't be long before I finally best
               you in a proper duel, either. Time is on my side, Abelon."

    A: I'm not quite worthy of that title (Kath +1 awareness, Abelon -1 impression)

        Kath: "...Is that your attempt at a joke? If there isn't a knight in
               Mistram or Ebonach who can match you in a duel, who exactly are
               you competing with?"

        Kath: "Unless you think being the greatest demands you also have
               a winning personality. In which case, yes, you're dead last."

A: Hurry and tend to Elaine (Elaine +1 impression)

    Kath: "Of course. A few more incantations and she should be able to walk."

A: We've spent too long here

    Kath: "When you're right, you're right, Abelon. I'll have Elaine walking
           upright in just a few more incantations. Then we'll track down our
           subordinates."

Elaine: "You said Abelon."

A: That would be me

A: ... (Abelon +1 impression)

Kath: "Yes, first captain of the Knights of Ebonach, and right hand of His
       Majesty the King. I'm Kath, by the way. Second captain. Ach, but you
       said you're of Ebonach, so I suppose none of this is news to you?"

Elaine: "............"

Kath: "It won't be long now before I've closed all of your wounds. It might
       hurt, but we clearly aren't safe outside the city walls, so I'm afraid
       you'll have to run before you can walk, as it were."

Elaine: "S-Sir Kath! And Sir Abelon! Oh my goddess, I didn't realize - forgive
         my plain speech!"

Kath: "...That's your worry right now? Ha ha!"

A: Plain is easier (Elaine +1 impression)

    LABEL -I-

    Elaine: "And my, my... complete helplessness! Ugh, I was crying out like a lost
            child! Grandad would have my hide."

A: Well, now you know

    GOTO -I-

*If you didn't say "Kath, there's another explanation"*

A: Drop the act. You're an enemy of the Kingdom (Abelon +1 impression, Elaine -1 impression)

    Elaine: "No! I... Please, I understand what this looks like, but I have
             nothing to do with the broken bridge! Just let me explain!"

    Kath: "Abelon, I think it's better we trust her for now. We don't have time
           to listen to her explanation out here, and it's not as though she 
           can do us much harm. Even if she is up to something."

    Elaine: "I'm not! Let me use my bow, and I'll prove it."

Elaine: "Sir Kath, Sir Abelon, I'll fight! As soon as I'm up! I could hit one of 
         those wolves through the ear from thirty paces!"

A: Through the ear?

    Elaine: "I only meant... It's just a... I won't actually do that. I'll hit
             it, really. Sir."

A: Just keep yourself alive, so this wasn't for nothing. (Kath +1 impression)

    Elaine: "I'll do more than that, Sir Abelon. I'll lay down my life if I
             have to!"

*If you didn't say "Kath, there's another explanation"*

A: As if we'd trust you with a weapon (Abelon +1 impression, Elaine -1 impression)

    Elaine: "But..."

*If you didn't say "Drop the act"*

A: Looking forward to seeing that. (Elaine +1 impression, Kath -1 impression)

    Elaine: "Oh, you will, Sir Abelon! Er, that is... not through the ear.
             Somewhere useful. Between the eyes! I'll lay down my life if I
             have to."

Kath: "Awfully eager of you, Elaine, considering the state you were in when 
       we arrived. You would throw yourself at the same enemy which maimed 
       you so badly only minutes ago?"

Elaine: "I... *gulp* I would, Sir Kath. I owe it to you both."

Kath: "Remarkable courage... or stupidity. Elaine, close your eyes for a
       moment."

Elaine: "Um..."

Kath: "...Good. Now picture, in your mind, that last encounter. The wolves. See
       one turn its head towards you, look at you with its red eyes. It charges
       at you. You're standing, bow in hand. What will you do?"

Elaine: "I... Oh goddess."

Kath: "Yes."

Elaine: "But Sir Kath, you told me! You said you'd need my bow!"

A: ...

    Kath: "And we will. But understand, Elaine, that you cannot do what we do.
           Should monsters block our path, you'll stay behind us and shoot, but
           above that, you'll not draw attention and make yourself a target."

A: I don't need help from a child (Abelon +1 impression, Elaine -1 impression, Kath -1 impression)

    Kath: "That's not what I'm getting at, old man. Personally, I think the
           assistance could prove useful, so long as she's prepared."

    Kath: "Understand, Elaine, that you cannot do what we do.
           Should monsters block our path, you'll stay behind us and shoot, but
           above that, you'll not draw attention and make yourself a target."

A: Kath, you did say that. Why scare her now? (Kath -1 impression, Kath +1 awareness)

    Kath: "Because she's reminding me far too much of Lester already. And of the
           the young knights less fortunate than him, dreaming of renown, who
           defended their first and last caravan to Mistram, killed on the
           Sonder."

    Kath: "Confidence belongs to the capable. I learned that from you, old man."

        A: I've taught you something after all

            Kath: "Then you should understand why I'm telling her this."

        A: Poor choice for a role model (Kath +1 impression)

            Kath: "Almost certainly, Abelon. But we can't help who we admire."

    Kath: "We will need your bow, Elaine. But you cannot do what we do. Should
           monsters block our path, you'll stay behind us and shoot, but above
           that, you'll not draw attention and make yourself a target."

*If you didn't say "Drop the act" or "Letting her hold a bow would be foolish" or
"As if we would trust you with a weapon"*

A: We will. But you need to understand. (Kath +1 impression)

    Kath: "You cannot do what we do. Should monsters block our path, you'll stay
           behind us and shoot, but above that, you'll not draw attention
           and make yourself a target."

Elaine: "...I understand, Sir Kath. Sir Abelon. I felt embarassed, is all, and
         guilty. I never imagined a captain of the knights would even speak to
         me, much less that two would save my life. You have so many important
         duties..."

A: And this is one of them

A: And this is the most important one (Kath +1 impression, +1 awareness)

Kath: "You've but one precious life, which we saved at great cost. Now is no
       time to be reckless."

Kath: "Besides, you've already spent your luck. We were only trying to regroup
       with the other members of our company, and it was entirely by chance that
       we came across you."

A: And it's time you tell us why you're here. (Abelon +1 impression)

    Elaine: "...Ugh. You found me here in the forest, so you must already 
             know. I did cross the bridge. It had been lowered..."

    A: That makes you guilty. (Elaine -1 impression)

        Elaine: "Let me finish!"

    A: ...

    Elaine: "I crossed the bridge, yes, but I had no idea it was sabotaged!"

    A: Nonsense. The bridge is never lowered. You must have known. (Abelon +1 impression)

        Elaine: "I didn't. Because... I was expecting it to be lowered."

    A: You were expecting the bridge to be lowered? (Kath +1 impression)
    
        Elaine: "I... I was."

    Kath: "You intended to come to the forest. Not only were you expecting
            it to be lowered, you were expecting it to be completely 
            unguarded. Is that right?"

    Elaine: "...Yes."

    Kath: "...By law, civilians are not to enter the North Forest. And the 
           bridge is never, ever to be unguarded. I trust you understand what 
           this admission means for you?"

    Elaine: "...I do..."

    Kath: "Then we'll not dwell on it further. There's more to this story,
           obviously, but we can't be jabbering on about it while our
           knights are in danger. Take my hand, Elaine."

A: Kath, she's healthy enough to move. We ought to leave. (Elaine +1 impression)

    Kath: "Indeed, it's only scrapes and bruises left on you now, Elaine. Time
           enough for those in the city. Take my hand."

*If Abelon used Purge during the battle*

    Elaine: "...I can move!"

    Kath: "Did you think you wouldn't be able to, after I stitched you up? Why,
           I'm nearly offended."

    Elaine: "No, I only meant... Um... Even after I woke up, my body
             felt frozen, until Sir Abelon used a spell on me while you were
             fighting those wolves."

    Kath: "Right, that. What exactly did you do to her, old man?"

    A: She was envenomated. I cured her. (Elaine +1 impression, Kath +1 impression, Kath +1 awareness)

        Kath: "So if I understand correctly, you not only discerned that she
               was infected, but then purged the venom with a spell I've never 
               even seen before, all while we were under attack by monsters."

        Kath: "...Some days, I wonder why His Majesty still retains you as a captain, 
               as inconsiderate and unpleasant as you are, but when we step onto
               the battlefield I remember. Your prescience, your reflexes... you
               could be the Kingdom's hero, if you only wanted to."

    A: I'm not sure. I followed my intuition. (Kath +2 awareness)

        Kath: "She's saying you cured her of something, and you don't even know
               what you were doing? None of this adds up..."

        *If Kath awareness >= 8*

            Kath: "The way you speak, it's like your memory is faltering. And your
                   actions have been... uncharacteristic. Ever since this ritual
                   of yours. It's almost as though..."

    Kath: "But I'm getting distracted. If you're fully recovered, Elaine, then
           there's nothing more for us here. We ought to reunite with Lester and
           Shanti immediately. Stay close to Abelon and I."

    Elaine: "O-ok. I'll keep my bow at the ready, Sir Kath."

    GOTO -G-

*Otherwise*

Elaine: "...Ah!"

Kath: "You'll have to be tougher than that Elaine. Or did I miss one of your
       injuries? I was thorough enough..."

Elaine: "That's not it, Sir Kath. I feel fine, but... I can't move. When you
         tried to pull me up just now, I felt a shock. It was... as though my
         body resisted it."

A: Difficulty moving is expected. Push through it. (Abelon +1 impression)

    Kath: "No, Abelon, this is worse. Paralysis after a wolf bite? Goddess, if
           it's not one thing, it's another..."

A: What do you make of it, Kath? (Kath +1 impression)

    Kath: "Paralysis after a wolf bite? Goddess, if it's not one thing, it's
           another..."

Kath: "You were infected. Some wolves carry a lethal venom in their bite."

Elaine: "W-What? ...Lethal?"

A: Without a salve. Kath, are you carrying it? (Kath +1 impression)

    Kath: "No, but Lester has Wornfleet salve in his medical kit. If we could
           only find him..."

A: Ridiculous. Our knights need us. Kath, leave her. (Kath -1 impression, Elaine -2 impression, Abelon +1 impression)

    Kath: "And abandon our only lead as to how the drawbridge was sabotaged?
           I'd expect you to show more sense than that, old man, whether or not
           you particularly care for her life."

    A: Fine. Then how can we cure her? (Kath +1 awareness)

        Kath: "Wornfleet salve applied to the wound will expel the venom. I
               thought you knew that... Lester carries it in his medical kit -
               if we find him, we can save Elaine, but..."

    A: Solving that mystery means nothing if we all die out here. (Abelon +1 impression)

        Kath: "And we won't, if we keep our wits about us. She only needs
               Wornfleet salve applied to her bite wounds. Lester has it in his
               medical kit, so it won't cost us much time to cure her, if we
               can only find him. But..."

A: ...

    Kath: "Without a particular salve of Wornfleet leaves, yes. Unfortunately I
           don't carry any, and I don't know a spell that can act as a
           substitute. It's Lester who has some in his medical kit. If we could
           only find him..."

// Elaine slowly stands, as though with great difficulty

*If you said to leave her behind*

    Elaine: "S-Sir Abelon, you're r-right... I've... *huff* burdened you
             enough..."

*Otherwise*

    Elaine: "I... *huff* I can't b-bear... h-how useless I've been... tch!"

Kath: "...! How did you just...?"

Elaine: "I'll... w-walk with you... to your knight... Lester..."

A: No, you will not. Sit down. (Kath +1 impression)

    LABEL -C-

    Elaine: "...No! I'm f-fine, I can-"

    Kath: "Sit. Down. However courageous you think you're being, you'll be out
           cold before you take five steps. Moving your muscles will accelerate
           the spread of venom and kill you."

A: Good. We can be on our way. (Kath -1 impression, Elaine +1 impression)

    Kath: "Abelon, you fool, if she starts moving about on her feet the venom
           will spread and kill her! Sit back down, Elaine."

A: ... (Abelon +1 impression)

    Kath: "Elaine, sit back down."

    GOTO -C-

Elaine: "I... I see. Helpless again... Some huntress I am..."

// Elaine sits

*If you didn't say "good, we can be on our way"*

A: We will find Lester, and direct him to you. You remain here. (Kath +1 impression)

    LABEL -D-

    Elaine: "...So the most I can do is lean against this tree and wait for my
             death? Another wolf will find me before your knight does... And I'm
             defenseless."

    Kath: "I'm sure it appears that way to you, but you aren't in immediate danger.
           The scent of their own blood will make monsters wary of approaching the
           road here for a little while, at least."

    Kath: "And our knight Lester... well, maybe "reliable" is not the right word, 
           but he's swift and resilient. He'll keep you safe."

    Elaine: "......"

    Elaine: "Just... please, promise someone will come for me."

    A: You have our word (Elaine +1 impression)

        Elaine: "Then I will wait."

        Kath: "Good."

    A: We cannot make such guarantees (Abelon +1 impression)

        Elaine: "...Grandad... Charim... Oh, what an idiot I've been..."

    GOTO -G-

*If you didn't say "No you will not."*

A: What, then, if she cannot move? (Kath +1 awareness)

    Kath: "Deferring to me...? I suggest we leave Elaine, find Lester, and have
           him take the cure to her here. He will be more than capable of
           protecting her."

    GOTO -D-

*If Abelon learned Purge*

A: There's a spell I learned in that ritual I'd like to try. (Kath +1 awareness)

    LABEL -E-

    Kath: "Full of surprises today, aren't you? If you think it'll work,
           I'm not about to stop you."

    // Regain control of Abelon.

    // Talking to Kath

    Kath: "Well? Pull out your ignea, and let's see this cantrip of yours."

    // Talking to Elaine

    Elaine: "Will it hurt? I mean, um... Goddess, I sound like a child.
             Just do it. Er... please. Sir Abelon."

    // Attempting to leave the area

    Kath: "Abelon? Where are you going? Weren't you suggesting you'd cure
           her with a spell? Or did I misunderstand?"

    // Using Purge on Elaine

    // Tutorial disappears. A glow surrounds Abelon and Elaine. Elaine slowly stands.

    Elaine: "I feel... fine, all of the sudden. Wow."

    Kath: "I'm not one to doubt you, Abelon, but I'm almost in disbelief that
           that worked. Closing wounds with ignea is one thing, but expelling
           disease or venom is... well, it's almost unheard of!"

    *If Abelon already used Conflagration or Crucible*

        Kath: "Between this and those scorching flames from earlier, I'm more
               and more curious about this ritual of yours."

    *Otherwise*

        Kath: "I'm more and more curious about this ritual of yours."

    Kath: "If you're sure it worked, Elaine, then there's nothing more for us
           here. We ought to reunite with Lester and Shanti immediately. Stay
           close to Abelon and I."

    Elaine: "O-ok. I'll keep my bow at the ready, Sir Kath."

    GOTO -G-

    LABEL -F-

    (Contextual actions tutorial)
    Tutorial: "In some situations, it may be appropriate to use an item or cast
               a spell on a particular location or target."

    Tutorial: "Move next to the target and open your inventory. Navigate to 
               the spell or item, select it, and "Use" it. To show an item to
               a person, select "Present"."

*If you didn't say to leave her behind, and Elaine impression > 0*

A: Kath, we must not leave her. She may be attacked again. (Elaine +2 impression)

    Kath: "And what do you suggest, old man? There's no saving her without a
           Wornfleet salve."

        *If Abelon learned Purge*

        A: I've learned a spell. From the ritual. Let me try. (Kath +1 awareness)

            GOTO -E-

        A: We make the salve. Wornfleet grows, just to the north. (Kath +2 awareness)

            Kath: "Abelon, you would walk even deeper into the forest?
                   If I had the leaves... Ach, I don't have any tools, but I
                   suppose I could chew them up... it could work."

            Kath: "All right, I'm convinced. I'll keep watch here while you
                   find the leaves. Just... Stay clear of monsters. We can't 
                   afford another drawn-out engagement this far from the city 
                   walls.

            // Regain control

            // On talking to Kath

                Kath: "I'm surprised you remembered that Wornfleet grows around here.
                    Even I'd forgotten. When is the last time you've been this far 
                    into the forest?"

                Kath: "...Nevermind, no time for chatter. I trust you also remember what 
                    the plant looks like? A golden stem, with jagged, brown leaves.
                    I need the leaves, at least four or five of them."

            // On talking to Elaine

                Elaine: "Wornfleet... The one with the brown leaves?"

                A: You know of it?

                    Elaine: "I only noticed how ugly it was. The blue flowers with
                            the bell-shaped blooms that grow here make better 
                            decorations. O-or, that's what someone told me, at
                            least! I wouldn't know!"

                    Kath: "Hmm..." // Kath learns something here

                    // Callback when talking to Elaine again

                    Elaine: "Goddess, Elaine, keep your stupid mouth shut..."

                A: It counteracts the venom (Elaine +1 impression)

                    Elaine: "...I always thought the Knights of Ebonach only knew
                            how to fight. But you instantly knew just the medicine 
                            that would cure me, and where to find it. It's... 
                            I'm... grateful you found me."

                    // Callback when talking to Elaine again

                    Elaine: "Did you find the leaves yet?"

            // On trying to exit south

                Kath: "Isn't the Wornfleet further north, where there's more
                    ash in the soil?"

            // On trying to exit north

                Kath: "It's too risky to go that far, Abelon!"

            // On examining Wornfleet

                Plant: "A plant with three disheveled brown leaves and a wiry
                golden stem pokes out from a patch of sticks and earth, drooping to
                one side as if tired."

                LABEL -H-

                A: Pick the leaves

                    _: "You bend down and pull several leaves off the plant. They 
                        detach with little resistance."

                    // Gain -Leaves- item

                    GOTO -F-

                A: Leave it

                    // Callback when interacting with the plant again

                    Plant: "The small, leafy plant is unmoving."

                    GOTO -H-

            // On presenting -Leaves- to Kath

                Kath: "This should be enough."

                // Kath moves to Elaine

                Kath: "With apologies for the indelicacy, I'll just... chew
                       these to extract the salve..."

                Elaine: "..."

                Kath: "...Eugh, tastes awful. But it should work. I can see 
                the bite wound on your shoulder; hold still."

                // Kath applies the salve

                Kath: "It won't be instant, of course, but luckily for us 
                       Wornfleet works quickly. Hence the name. Abelon, go
                       on ahead to find Lester and we'll be behind you."

                Elaine: "I think it's starting to work... Oh, what a relief
                         to feel my arms move freely! Thank you, Sir Kath! 
                         And Sir Abelon!"

                (Elaine +1 impression)

                GOTO -G-

        A: ...

            Kath: "We leave her, find Lester, and direct him here to cure
                   Elaine. It's the best option we have."

            GOTO -D-

A: We could carry her

    Kath: "That's still too dangerous - we would be moving her muscles around. 
           She needs to stay still until she's cured."

    Kath: "I think the best course is for us to leave Elaine, find Lester, and 
           have him take the cure to her here. He will be more than capable of
           protecting her."

    GOTO -D-
    
A: ... (Abelon +1 impression)

    Kath: "What to do... perhaps the best course is to leave Elaine, find 
           Lester, and have him take the cure to her here. He will be more 
           than capable of protecting her. Abelon, your thoughts?"

    A: It puts Elaine at risk

        Kath: "Ach, but we've no other reasonable choice. We can't move her."

    A: It puts us at risk (Kath -1 impression, Abelon -1 impression)

        Kath: "I fail to see how. If anything, Elaine is the one in danger."

    A: I agree

        Kath: "Hearing that does wonders for my confidence."

    GOTO -D-

LABEL -G-

Kath: "Lester had engaged a wolf at the crossroads. Assuming he
       killed it, he would have started coming this way. If we 
       take the path southeast towards the gate, we should find him."

// Regain control

// If you try to go northeast

Kath: "Whatever you're investigating over there, we'd best save it for 
       another day, old man. We need to get out of the north forest."

// Talking to Kath

Kath: "Let's hurry southeast along the path. The sooner we find Lester
       and Shanti, the sooner we can cross back into the city and put 
       this whole mess behind us."

// Talking to Elaine (poisoned)

Elaine: "...Please hurry..."

// Talking to Elaine (healed)

Elaine: "Sir Abelon, thank you for saving me. I'm not sure what I can do
         to help the Knights of Ebonach, but I've got my bow, and I know 
         my way around a hunt, at least."

A: A battle is not a hunt

    Elaine: "I learned that much watching you cut down those wolves. I'll
             watch closely and be careful, just like Sir Kath told me.
             A-and whatever your orders, sir, I'll follow them."

A: It's something. Help us where you're able. (Elaine +1 impression)

    Elaine: "Of course! I won't forget what you and Sir Kath have done
             for me. Even if today I've been a burden, someday in the
             future, I'll repay you. Somehow..."

// Once we get to Lester, it's time to start having some impression checks.
// Things should change. Perhaps you should even collect some different items.