King Eon Sinclair. TODO

Gaheris, the kingdom's premier mage and researcher, is working on techniques for suppressing the monster incursions,
and researching why this is happening in the first place. His discoveries are beginning to lead him somewhere shocking
and horrifying. TODO

Uther, an able-bodied miner from the Ignea village, is fed up with poor treatment from Opal's guard – he has convinced
fellow miners, and some (but not all) villagers to stage an uprising against the guard. With the guard defeated,
their plan is to bring it under their dominion, halt ignea shipments to the capital, and redirect them towards
powering the soldiers and miners to defend the village. Uther reasons that it is no longer prudent to continue
bringing Ignea across the dangerous Sonder and that the capital must fall, so that remaining humans can survive.
The miners have recently discovered a cave leading from the mountains to the gulf, where they can fish enough to
stay fed without further shipments from the capital. The capital can't risk being undefended, and so cannot send
enough knights to take back the village. He plans to tell Kath, his cousin, of the plot, so that Kath and those
close to him can move from the capital to the village before shipments stop. He knows Kath is sympathetic to the
miners and believes he will join the cause.

Mona, a widow who is the village's most adept healer, has been taking care of the guards, and recently, the miners.
In her capacity as healer, she has noticed strange blemishes on the miners, and just recently, has begun to see ignea
crystals protruding from their flesh, inflicting them with an illness of the mind that causes them to behave
erratically. This has only just occurred as the story begins, and the villagers are not widely aware that this is
happening. But these incidents are rapidly accelerating. Mona is a brave woman who was married to a famous knight.
The knight and his brother were conscripted to jointly command the northern village, which had become leaderless
just when the monsters were just beginning to grow more violent (some 30 years ago). Mona demanded that her husband
take their young son Kath with him, so that he would not grow up in the mines (which were beginning to see more and
more use around the time).

Opal, the knight captain leading the kingdom guard currently defending the mining village, continues to work the
miners harder, though she feels guilty about doing so. She doesn't believe she has any other choice, and would join
in the mining herself except that the entire guard is needed to maintain the village garrison, stave off repeated
monster attacks, and defend shipments. Opal represents the steadfast refusal to compromise. She wants to save
everyone and serve her king, but is tortured by the sacrifices that must be made.

Kath, newly minted knight captain and longtime friend of Abelon, is outwardly cheery in the face of grim events,
but he feels turmoil inside. He feels the need to be a hero for the capital, since he is the most beloved knight
captain. He was born in the forgotten village in the northern forests, and grew up alongside his cousin Uther,
ten years before it was obliterated by dragons in an attack that killed his father and aunt and uncle (Uther's
parents). He escaped in the sole caravan which survived the evacuation, and vowed to become strong and protect
people, and to find his mother, who his dad often spoke lovingly of.

Luci is Gaheris's young protege, who was previously an orphan the knights taught to fight.
The knights call her Luci, but no one knows her real name, and her past is shrouded in mystery.

Abelon, knight captain and executioner, born and raised in the capital, has decided to take matters into his own hands,
and summon power from the demons of the earth.

Shanti.

Lester.

Elaine.

The Cardinal, a courageous woman who led the watchers.

The Caretaker, a brave female knight who watched over the first messenger.

Stefan, Kath's dad and the former knight captain.

Jericho, the royal tactician.
