What to do next, organized into sections and issues! (please commit each
paragraph separately for your own sanity)

CHAPTER 1 IMPLEMENTATION CHECKLIST

#?:

    #57 / #16 / #63 / below:
    In battle, HUD should show how much damage/healing you are about to do and what
    statuses you will apply to each enemy/ally, when an attack is selected.
    When an assist is selected, HUD should show the effect that will apply to the
    assisted tiles

    #48
    #59

    Screen shake: two versions, fast and slow

    Implement rewritten beginning of script

    #51
    #52
    #53
    #4
    #56
    #67

#69:

    Finalize Elaine sprite, draft portrait

    Elaine-idle
    Elaine-walk
    Elaine-downed
    Elaine-getup
    Elaine-combat-entry-exit
    Elaine-combat
    Elaine-combat-run
    Elaine-weapon
    Elaine-spell
    Elaine-assist
    Elaine-hurt
    Elaine-death

    Implement Elaine script.

    Implement Elaine battle. Defend her from wolves! Keep them away. Reinforcements
    arrive twice, once from next to Elaine (with a warning from her), and once from
    further away. The battle ends automatically after a certain number of turns and
    all wolves flee. Elaine is an ally unit for the purposes of the battle, but
    starts at 1hp and has status debuffs that make her unable to move, and the only
    skill she knows is Observe. Observe grants her a small amount of Exp, which
    causes her to level up to level 2, so she can learn her first attacking skill
    after the battle, but she cannot gain any other experience during the fight.

    Update exp table to account for bonus exp, and to make Elaine's and Abelon's
    growth curves fair. Either Abelon or Kath, but probably not both, should level
    up in the second battle. Elaine should level up once each battle if you use her.
    Potentially she could get from 2 to 4 in her first real battle.

    Test out Elaine's skills in a mock battle

    #64

#70:

    Finalize Lester sprite, draft portrait

    Lester-idle
    Lester-walk
    Lester-combat-entry-exit
    Lester-combat
    Lester-combat-run
    Lester-weapon
    Lester-spell
    Lester-assist
    Lester-hurt
    Lester-death

    Stone sprite data and graphics

    Write Lester scenarios (version with and version without Elaine)

    implement Lester scenarios

    #65

#71:

    Finalize Shanti sprite, draft portrait

    Shanti-idle
    Shanti-walk
    Shanti-combat-entry-exit
    Shanti-combat
    Shanti-combat-run
    Shanti-weapon
    Shanti-spell
    Shanti-assist
    Shanti-hurt
    Shanti-death

    implement Shanti scenario (four versions: saved lester and elaine quickly so
    Shanti is saveable, Saved Elaine out of battle so Shanti dies, sent lester to 
    Elaine and he dies, or skipped Elaine)

    #?: Improve AI algorithm
    improve AI algorithm - use other plans! In particular, enemies shouldn't
    interfere with each other. If one enemy has only a single path to attack their
    target, the acting enemy shouldn't get in the way of that path unless it
    needs to in order to attack its own target. To minimize interference in general,
    the strongest enemies should take their turns first, and the enemies who start
    farther away from the allies should also be prioritized.

#72:

    Implement visiting Elaine's corpse scenario (Lester saw her)

    Boss sprite data and graphics

    Implement bridge battle scenario (four versions: Lester dead, Shanti dead,
    Elaine dead, all alive) (objective is survive)

    #66

    Implement chapter conclusion scenario

#68:

    Last pass over script for consistency

    #?: Animation sound effects
    #?: "splash" animations
    #9: Lighting engine

#73:

    Make executable

#74:

    Pre-alpha closed release

SECTION: GAME ENTRY-EXIT PROCEDURES

#16:

Title screen v0 (continue (if save file detected), new game ->
choose difficulty). Title screen should have controls in one corner

Implement game start scene, implement ??? for sprites whose names are not known
to the player. Learning a name is a scene event.

Chapter 1 start card

#48:

Tutorial information should appear on the right side of the screen, in the
middle. Tutorial paragraphs are given in the script. They are also accessible
from the settings menu in a "tutorial" menu.

Support GOTOs in scenes for sane script-writing.

Use a better format than a text file for writing a branching story?

#59:

Chapter end trigger. Displays a bridge scene (??? talks again), and chapter 2
start card (Teaser). Kicks you back to the title screen





SECTION: MAP WORK

#57:
south forest map (green)
south forest sprites

#9:

Expand lighting engine. Flickering, smoothing, obstacle detection (sprite
parameter deciding whether it blocks light may be needed. e.g. abelon blocks
light but a log doesn't), proper color computation. Look up lua/love shaders

Alternate, darken with patterns of black pixels over tiles?





SECTION: ANIMATION WORK

#52:

Every skill has an associated single-fire animation, with render position
determined by the cursor location of the cast. This has nothing to do with the
sprite casting the skill. For some skills, the animation should play at every
affected tile, for others, the animation should play centered on the cursor and
affected by direction. This should be provided as an option.

Insert appropriate hooks for skill animations to play at the right points in
battle (fill in with a universal default).

Skill animations for all basic skills.

#51:

Kath-idle
Kath-heal

Abelon-combat
Kath-combat
Abelon-combat-run
Kath-combat-run

Two mostly identical wolf sprites.

Wolf-combat (this doubles as Wolf-idle)
Wolf-walk (this doubles as Wolf-combat-run)

#53:

Each sprite that battles has seven single-fire animations: one for weapon
skills, one for spells, one for assists, one for being injured, one for dying,
one for combat entry (bridges idle -> combat), and one for combat exit (this
can just be the combat entry animation played in reverse). For hostile entities,
their combat entry and exit are just their idle animations, because their idle
animation is their combat animation. Hostile entities also have no assist
animation, and in some cases, no spell animation (e.g. for wolves)

Insert appropriate hooks for combat animations to play at the right points in
battle (fill in with a universal default).

Abelon-combat-entry-exit
Abelon-weapon
Abelon-spell
Abelon-assist
Abelon-hurt
Abelon-death

Kath-combat-entry-exit
Kath-weapon
Kath-spell
Kath-assist
Kath-hurt
Kath-death

Wolf-weapon
Wolf-hurt
Wolf-death

#?:

When sprites take damage, a damage splash should be rendered. When they heal,
a heal splash should be rendered. This should happen as the damage is dealt.
The idea of a "splash" animation could be re-used for skill animations.

When sprites gain exp, render exp splash. This should happen on a delay, so
the exp splash renders after the relevant action has just finished playing out.





SECTION: SFX WORK

#4:

SFX for:
menu select (not too different from current)
Scene text sound effects
start game (from title screen)

#56:

SFX for:
earthquake
use weapon skill
use spell
use assist
battle cursor move
battle select ally/enemy
battle select target for move/attack/assist
battle confirm end action
battle enemy turn start
battle ally turn start
level up
all skills

Mute ally turn start, enemy turn start, victory, defeat menus

#?:

Explore "animation sound effects": looping sound effects associated with an
animation and based on proximity to the sprite, like a crackling torch, or
a person's footsteps. Not an easy task!!





SECTION: MUSIC TRACKS

#63:

Fade is quieter than it should be. Make sure tracks don't change volume!

For title screen music, use the voice memo on my phone: Time Slows. Tentative
track name: The Lonely Knight. Experiment with slow crescendos! And quiet bass.

#64:

Defeat theme: Despair - Short theme that plays during the battle loss scene.

#65:

Enemy approaches theme - for rising action before a fight! This should play for
most of the forest.

#66:

Second battle theme - for the last encounter. This just got much more serious.

#67:

Better forest theme - more tense investigation, less funeral march