The Time of Eruta

In ancient history, before humanity, the world was alive and uninhabitable. Creatures of land and sea could never
survive upon the thrashing Eruta.

Some thousands of years before the Watch

Eruta enters a deep slumber. Flora and fauna begin to thrive on the sleeping land, and in time, humanity appears.

Year 0 of the Watch

Humanity has become quite active, and Eruta sends a messenger which arrives near the city of Lefellen. Seven heroes
band together, aided by a demon, to subdue the Messenger and put it to sleep. Through the knowledge provided by the
demon, they know that they must not kill it, but instead care for it. One of the heroes, a noble knight, agrees to
become the Caretaker, who will dedicate their life to feeding and sustaining the Messenger. It is quickly decided that
two should share this knowledge, in case something should happen to the Caretaker before they can find a successor.
Another hero, a healer, agrees to become the Caretaker's confidant. The two share in the knowledge of how to sustain
the Messenger, but keep its existence a secret from the rest of the world, to keep the Messenger safe and not alarm
the people. The Messenger's location is in a cave deep in the Lefellen Forest, North of Lefellen and beyond even the
Kingdom Archives, hidden from all.

Given their repute, the shift in their activities and presence, as well as their new secrecy, leads curious observers
to begin talking about them, from a safe distance of course. The Caretaker's confidant decides to take advantage of
this – he marshals them into the Order of Watchers, a religious group worshipping the mother Eruta, from which he will
select the most faithful and reliable to be the new Caretaker. The Caretaker's confidant leads this group, calling
himself the Cardinal. The Caretaker agrees to disappear from public life completely, and the Cardinal claims he has
left on a sacred pilgrimmage, to silence any further investigation into the Caretaker. The Cardinal busies himself with
leading the Order and finding two successors – one to be the new Cardinal, and another to be the new Caretaker. He
occasionally meets in secret with his old friend the Caretaker, to make sure that everything is alright with the
Messenger.

Year 114 of the Watch

Ebonach is founded and settled by people of Lefellen. It will eventually become the new capital city of this united
Kingdom of Lefally.

Year 586 of the Watch

Mistram is founded, the third city of Lefally, in territory claimed after a war with a neighboring kingdom to the
northwest. Lefally grows prosperous and is able to train more mages and do more research with the ignea mined from the
aptly named Ignea Mountains west of Mistram.

Year 670 of the Watch

Prince Eon Sinclair is born in Ebonach.

Year 673 of the Watch

Abelon is born in Ebonach. For his entire life, he is groomed to be the knight captain and right hand of the future
King Sinclair, and the two become great friends.

Year 681 of the Watch

Mona is born in Lefellen.

Year 693 of the Watch

Eon Sinclair is crowned King of Lefally, and Abelon is named knight captain, the youngest ever to achieve the title.

Year 696 of the Watch

Opal is born in Mistram.

Year 683 of the Watch

Gaheris is born in Ebonach.

Year 703 of the Watch

King Sinclair's spies discover and track the communications between the current Cardinal and Caretaker, ultimately
discovering the Caretaker's location, along with the messenger.  Sinclair questions the Cardinal as to why he and the
Caretaker are sheltering and nourishing a huge monster, and the Cardinal can only respond that maintaining the secrecy
of its location is of utmost importance, and he will do anything in his power to prevent people from learning about the
Messenger, strongly implying that he would kill the king were it within his power. The King orders his spies to
continue watching the Caretaker and Messenger, and reporting to him.

Year 704 of the Watch

Sinclair's spies stop returning from their missions to Lefellen. Concerned, angry, and unwilling to be kept in the
dark, Sinclair secretly sends Abelon to Lefellen, knowing that nothing on Eruta could possibly defeat his knight
captain.

Abelon finds the caretaker and is attacked viciously, as the other spies were. In self-defense, Abelon uses his
superior strength and skill to kill the Caretaker. Abelon confiscates his belongings, including a book containing
an unknown summoning incantation, and returns to the King. Unknown to all, the Messenger dies in the absence of a
Caretaker and Eruta stirs, beginning the Despair.

When Sinclair hears the news, he confronts the Cardinal and asks what he will do now, giving him the book of
incantations. The Cardinal, horrified, rushes to the Messenger but finds it has already perished. Having no more
reason to hide the truth, he tells the King of the great calamity that will befall Eruta in the coming years. He
says he will lead the Order of Watchers in pallative rituals to quiet Eruta, but that it may not be enough. Sinclair,
not entirely trusting the Cardinal but seeing no harm in his proposed action, allows him to continue and even
encourages converts to the Order of Watchers, to have more hands to appease Eruta. The Cardinal and King develop a
trust and friendship over the next thirty years.

Year 705 of the Watch

The Despair begins. Monster attacks grow more frequent.

Year 706 of the Watch

Mistram becomes primarily a town for mining Ignea, due to the great need for powerful magic to fend off monsters.

Year 707 of the Watch

Kath is born in Mistram from a love between Mona and the renowned knight captain Stefan. his father will raise him in
Lefellen, so he does not grow up as a miner. Mona remains in Mistram because her services are needed as a healer.

Year 709 of the Watch

Uther is born in Lefellen, child of Stefan's brother and a woman he fell in love with in Lefellen, making him Kath's
cousin.

Year 712 of the Watch

A great blue dragon burns Lefellen to the ground, killing Kath and Uther's parents, and Kath flees with Uther to
Ebonach. Without a third city to supply the Kingdom, the Despair grows ever more perilous.

Year 719 of the Watch

Luci is born in Ebonach.

Year 723 of the Watch

Luci is found alone on the streets of Ebonach, and, presumed orphaned, taken to the barracks to be raised by the
knights, as is the custom in Ebonach.

Year 734 of the Watch

The Cardinal resigns himself to the fact that the Order's rituals are only delaying the inevitable. The death of the
first Messenger sufficiently agitated Eruta that it will not be quieted – there will be another Messenger. Sinclair
and the Cardinal reason that the only way out for humanity is to subdue the Messenger again, requiring a group of
able heroes, a standing army, and the help of the ancient demon. Given the acceleration of the Despair, the Kingdom
army is rapidly shrinking, and its great heroes grow older by the day – Sinclair and the Cardinal know that the
messenger must be summoned as quickly as possible if they are to have a chance. The rituals of the Order must be
stopped, and the organization disbanded. Knowing that the faith of the membership is too strong for them to disband
by a mere public order, the Cardinal tells his old friend Sinclair to have him executed for treason, forcing the
Watchers to give up their faith. Sinclair will give the demon-summoning tome to Abelon, doubtless the strongest
warrior in the Kingdom, who was able to defeat the peerless Caretaker.

Abelon publicly executes the Cardinal, on the orders of the King. On the stand before the axe, the Cardinal secretly
slips Abelon the summoning tome, whispering "There will be another messenger. You will need this, in your darkest hour.
We're counting on you." In the absence of the rituals performed by the Order of Watchers, Eruta wakes further and
spawns a new Messenger, a vessel for a portion of the will of the land. If it observes chaos and agitation, or if it
is killed, Eruta will be roused fully and humanity will end.

After the execution, King Sinclair orders the Watchers to be disbanded, without explaining himself, a move which earns
him resentment from the people, one of the only unpopular decisions he's ever made. The former Watchers seethe
towards Sinclair and Abelon both. Abelon keeps the book of incantations close, not sure what to do with it, nor sure
of the meaning of the Cardinal's final message. Sinclair intends to tell Abelon of his duty, but things quickly
spiral out of control when monsters attack the city.

Chapters 1-3

Year 735 of the Watch

Chapters 4-7

The new Cardinal and Caretaker are named.
