Assist system: get attack and defense bonuses based on your position relative to other allies. Assists affect a range
of tiles like moves in chess. Could be an assist to close characters, far away characters, diagonal characters,
characters in a straight line, characters around an enemy. etc.

Every turn, each character on the team does a move, action, assist

Characters have weapon skills, spells, and assists, as well as passives. Weapon skills, spells, and assists may have
cooldowns or cost ignea or cobalt. These four types of abilities can be learned through a skill tree system. This,
along with stats, represent the bulk of the progression in the game.

Ignea and cobalt spells, and some assists, deplete two resources, ignea and cobalt. Each character has their own store
of these two resources, making them work much like mana in your average RPG.

Moving turn order is a thing too, potentially. Plan your whole turn to kill as many people as possible and leave
yourself with lots of defensive assists!

Assists can help people with cobalt spenders or ignea spenders sometimes. Potentially party members can be given
more cobalt or ignea, choice?

Maps are mostly mid-sized, but size varies. A battle should take about 30min. Varied objectives to spice things up
(escape, defend, kill target, kill all). All maps have turn limits, and most have optional objectives - loot!

Winning a battle grants EXP based on each fighter's participation, EXP levels up characters, which grants a skill
point and some stat boosts. In addition to flat boosts, extra boost to a stat can be chosen, a la superstar saga.
The amount of EXP for each level up scales upwards, and monsters give a flat amount of EXP, so lower leveled
characters can catch up. Leveling up is faster in the early game.

There is 1 divine pulse equivalent ability per battle, in case a mistake is made.

If any unit dies in battle, the battle is lost.

The game doesn't need a magic resistance stat. Physical attacks should just eat up CON, while magic attacks deal less
damage but pierce DEF. That way building both CON and DEF is ideal, but some situations might call for more of one
or the other, influencing strategy. You could often fight a mix of spell casters and physical attackers, and
occasionally fight a horde of one type.
