An expedition represents some number of battles in an area, over which ignea and cobalt are NOT replenished.
Expeditions usually have a tough boss fight at the end.  After leaving a rest area (usually a town of some sort) and
launching an expedition, the party enters the map to be explored. The map has battles and secrets and loot scattered
around. The expedition is finished when the boss is defeated, the boss being the last of several mandatory battles.
There may be other optional battles off the beaten path which guard some loot or lore.

In an expedition, the player stands to gain loot, lore, and levels.

Loot comes in two forms. The first is stat-boosts and resource recoveries which help the party complete the current
expedition, for example, extra cobalt or ignea, or +1 damage on all attacks for the rest of the expedition. The
existence of these encourages players to explore the map. The second kind of loot is extra abilities, which are
rewards for completing optional objectives in battle (e.g. win by X turns, rescue person Y, grab treasure Z before
the battle ends). New abilities are not direct upgrades but represent more choice for the player, which may make
things slightly easier or more fun (direct upgrades are saved for the controlled progression found in skill trees).

Lore is obtained through exploring the map and fighting both mandatory and optional battles. Tidbits of lore will
be scattered around the map in secrets or in plain sight. For players that like lore, this is an added incentive
to look around. For players that don't care, lore can be safely ignored.

For battle, see the Combat System note.

If anyone dies, the battle is lost, and must be restarted from a save. Saves are made before and after each battle in
an expedition.

Some areas from previous expeditions are revisited later – in these cases, the entry point is new and the path
through the map is new, but it does intersect with the old map in interesting ways! Shortcuts, weaving, treasure,
etc. Unlock a map affecting ability halfway through the game before any areas are revisited, to facilitate this.
